Overwhelmed?
No idea what setup to start with or how to adjust  
any setup to your driving level and  style in Assetto Corsa Competizione?
Well, look no further, as today I’m gonna show you  how to go from being overwhelmed by all of this…
to a great baseline setup and  just having to adjust this…
This process will make it way easier to  get a setup that actually fits your skill  
level and driving style, so you don’t  have to rely on other people’s setups.
Welcome back to HDeeRacing.
Just a quick disclaimer, I’m  not a pro driver or tuner.
But these steps are based on what  pro drivers do with their setups  
and I’ve had great success with them as  a somewhat intermediate level driver.
I personally struggle a lot with  the aggressive preset for some cars.
But with an easy to set up baseline,  
it doesn’t take long for me to get  to a setup I can drive quite well.
This all works in version 1.9.8.
If future versions change anything  I’ll update you in the pinned comment.
How to get to the baseline
But let’s get going.
To start with we’re going to have to make quite  
a few changes to get to that  baseline I was talking about.
Once you’re there though, the process of  adjusting the setup further is a lot easier.
I would recommend getting started with the  
safe preset if you’re very new  to ACC or racing in general.
Otherwise start with the aggressive preset.
In both cases follow along with  the adjustment I’m gonna show you.
I’m not gonna explain a lot of  why we’re making certain changes,  
as that would make this video  very long and convoluted.
Some changes may seem very  counterintuitive and unrealistic,  
but these settings work very well  in the current version of ACC.
And that goes for not only the  GT3s, but also GT4s and GT2s.
The latter just may have less  settings to adjust in some cases.
So let’s now head ingame, so you can follow along.
I'll go with the aggressive  preset for this demonstration
So let's do some changes shall we?
Tires Baseline
First of all we are not going to talk about tire  pressures or brake ducts in this video, A because  
they are very much dependent on the track and the  conditions, but also I've already done a video  
showcasing how you set these correctly which  I will link for you if you need a refresher.
But we are going to start with toe.
Start setting this to negative 0.15 in  the front and positive 0.05 in the rear.
This will be a very good starting point  that we can adjust later if necessar.
For camber set this to the most negative value  you can both in the front and in the rear.
This is almost always the best  option in ACC's current patch.
For caster set this to the maximum value.
This will give you a better turn  and response and also improved force  
feedback feel so it's a very good option  to set this to the maximum in most cars.
You may have to reduce it in some by a couple  of clicks if the turn in is a little bit too  
harsh but as I said in most cars this is  the best option for ACC's current patch.
Electronics Baseline
Next we will head to the electronics page.
Here you can almost always leave TC, ABS and ECU  map as it is set for your preset but if you have  
TC2 available to you reduce that to zero as it  almost always hinders you more than it helps.
We are going to talk about TC and  ABS a little bit more later on.
Fuel & Strategy Baseline
But let's now head to fuel and strategy.
Here just set the fuel load that you want  to use for whatever you're doing and as I  
said in the previous video if you're doing a  short race under 90 minutes go for brakes 1.
Mechanical Grip Baseline
And then we come to the most complicated section,  
mechanical grip, but we are going  to make our life a lot easier here.
Start by setting the front anti-roll bar  
to the maximum value and the rear  anti-roll bar to the minimum value.
Brake power just leave at 100% and Brake bias set  to about 25% of the slider because percentages  
are going to differ from car to car so for  me I'm just going to set it somewhere here.
Steering ratio you can almost always  leave as is and we're going to talk  
a little bit more what that does and  if you want to adjust that later on.
Now we come to the springs:
Because it works so well and it makes our  life so much easier we are just going to  
make the car very soft and that means  dropping both the wheel rate and the  
bump stop rate to the minimum value  both on the front and on the rear.
For bumpster range we're going to set it  to round about the middle of the slider  
for now we're going to talk a little  bit more about it later but just get  
it roughly to the middle right now and  this is how I'm going to set it for now.
And the last thing to do is the preload  differential here at the bottom we are also  
just going to drop that to the minimum value and  that is the mechanical grip section done for now.
Dampers Baseline
Let's now head to the dampers and  those are also very complicated  
normally but we are going to make  our life a lot easier here as well.
And it may seem very weird but we are just  going to reduce the bump both normal and  
fast to the most negative (0 actually)  value both in the front and in the rear  
and the rebound to the maximum value both  fast and normal and both front and rear.
As I said may look weird but it works  very well in ACC right now and setting  
dampeners correctly normally takes a lot of  effort in terms of going through telemetry  
like Motec for example and we really  don't want to get into that right now.
So that's the dampers done.
Very easy, right?
Aero Baseline
Let's head into the Aero section:
Here we are not going to talk about  brake ducts as I already said I've  
explained how these work and how you set  them correctly in the previous video.
What we are going to do is reduce the front  
splitter to the minimum and the  rear wing to the maximum value.
Right height we can leave as is for now  and it might be a little bit higher in  
the front for you if you've picked the safe  preset but that's not a big deal for now.
And that's already it: this is our Baseline setup.
We can now work with this to make it  fit our driving style and our skill  
level and also make it behave the way we want.
Figure out what needs to be changed
To do that we will however first need to  adjust brake ducts and tire pressures so  
get on track and do that as I've  explained in the previous video.
Once you have the correct pressures  and temperature you will then again  
need to head out on track and do a few  laps to figure out how the car behaves  
and what you actually want and need  to change from the Baseline setup.
By the way in the background you're seeing me  
driving the Mercedes AMG GT3 right now a  car that I haven't driven all that much.
And this is with the aggressive preset so without  any of the changes that we just outlined and that  
is just to show you how much I was struggling  with that and how much the adjustments that we  
just made for the Baseline setup helped as we're  going to take a look at a lap afterwards with the  
Baseline setup so where I went through the exact  same process that we just did for the McLaren.
And you'll be able to see how much  easier it will be for me to handle  
the car with the Baseline setup and  also how much faster I can go with it.
While that's running in the background  let's talk about what we want to look  
out for when driving the Baseline setup  with the adjusted tire pressures and  
Brake ducts to figure out what we  actually still want want to change  
on it to make it fit our driving style  and just behave the way that we want to.
You want to take note of where your car over- or  
understeers too much and in which  situations that exactly occurs.
And that could be on Turn-In,  on brakes, on Corner entry exit,  
on throttle, just mid Corner in general,  so you could maybe have some understeer  
problems while on the brakes and  going into the corner and maybe  
some oversteer while going on throttle if  you exit a corner, something like that.
Just take note of the situations where  your car behaves not the way that you  
want to be it understeering and not really  being able to turn or oversteering and the  
rear snapping on you or the car just generally  becoming too unstable in certain situations.
And if you've done that we can go back  to the setup screen and then talk about  
what we can actually do if you experience  under- or oversteer in certain situations.
Aero Adjustments
This time we will start start in the aero section.
Here we can play with both the front and the  rear right height and that will affect how  
the car in general feels so if it's in  general more over- or more understeery.
The difference between the front  and the rear is what is actually  
affecting that the most and that's called Rake.
More difference between the two means more rake  
and means that the car will  overall be more oversteery.
Lowering the difference between the two so  for example lowering the rear right height  
or increasing the front will mean less  rake and the car being more understeery.
If you started on the aggressive preset your front  ride height will probably already be quite low.
On the safe preset however it is  most likely a little bit higher.
If you want to affect your car to be  less understeery and more oversteery  
then lowering the front is  probably your best option.
That will also increase the aerodynamics  because the car is just lower to the ground.
If you still need a little bit more  rotation on the car in general increase  
the rear ride height a bit and if  you want less rotation decrease it,  
it makes the car a little bit  more understeery but safer.
For more specific problems we will now  head to the mechanical grip section.
Mechanical Grip Adjustments
Here we can take a look at brake bias first.
If you notice that your car is  not behaving well while braking  
be it to understeery or oversteery  this is a great setting to adjust.
If you need more rotation so less understeer  while breaking you can lower this value more  
and if you feel like it's rotating too  much and snapping on you while on braking  
then you can increase it but generally lower  values will make you faster in the long run.
Somewhat adjacent to that and tackling a  similar problem are the front Bump Stop ranges.
Reducing these to the lowest value  would mean that the front suspension  
can move almost not at all while  going on brakes or turning into a  
corner which would lead to more  understeer in those situations.
On the other hand if you increase this  to the maximum value that means that the  
front suspension can move quite a lot more  and that would mean more traction on the  
front which is good but that could increase  oversteer again because the balance between  
front and rear is shifted and maybe the rear  then doesn't have enough traction anymore.
So this is a value that you will  need to play with but generally  
think of the front bump stop ranges  as with lower values meaning more  
understeer and higher values meaning more  traction but potentially more oversteer.
I generally set these somewhere between  the halfway and the 3/4 Mark so play with  
these if you have problems going on  the brakes or turning into a corner.
The rear Bump Stop ranges work pretty much the  same but they have a very different effect here.
If you lower these to the lowest  value that once again means that  
the suspension in the rear this time  can't really travel all that much but  
that means that if you put weight on  it so if you accelerate that the rear  
really has nowhere to go and it can start  sliding and that would increase oversteer.
While on the other hand if you increase this  value to the maximum the rear suspension has  
quite a lot of travel and that means  if you put the power down that the rear  
can then move quite a bit and that would  reduce oversteer and increase understeer.
So in general I would say once again put  this somewhere between the half way and  
the 3/4 Mark and you're pretty much good to go.
But just remember that contrary to  the front increasing this value will  
increase understeer while lowering  it will increase oversteer and that  
effect is strongest while  pushing down the throttle.
Electronics Adjustments
Let's Now quickly talk about Electronics  because the first setting here traction  
control actually does something kind of similar to  
what we did with the rear Bump Stop  ranges just in a very different way.
Because TC is an electronic system that  interferes with the actual spinning of  
your tires if it detects that you have  wheel spin or that you may be spinning  
out because the left and the right side of  your wheels are not in sync enough anymore.
And it will do that more if the value  is higher and that will mean that yes  
it is safer to run higher values because  well it interferes more and prevents you  
from spinning out while pushing down the  throttle but it will also make you slower.
While on the other hand if you reduce  this value it will not interfere as much  
or not at all if TC is off but that  would mean it's way more dangerous  
to put down the throttle and if you're  not careful you can spin out easily.
So be careful with this value stay  away from TC off if you're a beginner  
and play with something between  like one and four maybe and you  
can definitely take the values that are  in the safe or in the aggressive preset.
One notable exception where you would run  way higher values is the Ferrari 296 which  
actually can run something between like 6 and 8  easily because the TC on that car is very good.
But normally for almost all other cars  something between 1 and four play with  
this and if you notice that the system  is interfering too much reduce it and  
if it's not interfering enough and  you're spinning out increase this.
Next up is the ABS or your anti-lock  braking system and that as the name  
suggests will prevent your wheels from  locking up if you push the brake too  
hard which is something these cars  have and you should make use of that.
But to high values would mean that  the ABS is interfering too much and  
you will lose braking power because of  that and too low values or even setting  
this to off would mean that you run  the risk of actually having lockups  
in the wheels which will make your  car just slide and not brake at all.
So generally a value between like one and  three is run on most cars sometimes you  
can run a little bit higher again with a  Ferrari 296 it's a very notable exception  
where you would run higher values  but in general just try to run as  
as low of a value as possible so you  have the maximum braking power while  
still not having lock up in the wheels  because the ABS isn't interacting enough.
Tires Adjustments
Last but not least let's take a  look at the tire section once again:
As I said in the beginning we can  play with a toe a little bit more.
And if we do that in the front by  reducing it we would improve our  
Corner entry a little bit more by making  the car rotate more but that would come  
at the cost of maybe having a little  bit more oversteer on Corner entry.
If that's the case and you still  have that you can of course also  
increase this value to have the car a  little bit more stable on Corner entry.
But in general you want this value  in the front to be negative and I've  
seen anything from like -0.1 to all  the way negative but that's a little  
bit extreme for me so I usually  stay between like -0.25 to -0.1.
So play with that if you want to  really fine-tune your corner entry.
The rear toe is an excellent adjustment  for General stability because increasing  
this value will also increase  the stability of your car most  
of the time but it can come at  a cost of induced understeer.
On the other hand if you want your car  to be a little bit more pointy but maybe  
have a little bit more oversteer then  decreasing this value is a good idea.
But I would generally stay away  from negative values in the rear  
and stay between like zero and maybe 0.15.
And that's all the adjustments that  I would make to the Baseline setup.
With these you should be able to set the car  to your personal skill level and liking for  
your driving style and not have to worry  about all the interplay between all the  
different settings that there are because  as you have seen we've set a lot of those  
to just standard values and are adjusting only  a few for very specific problems and purposes.
My McLaren Setup
Let me now quick show you my personal McLaren  
setup for Barcelona that I also use  as a baseline for every other track.
You can see that in the tires page I really  didn't change anything from the Baseline.
On the electronics I just reduced ABS a bit  to have a little bit less interference but  
left traction control at 3 though sometimes  I reduce it to two as well if I feel like it.
In the mechanical grip section also pretty  much Baseline and I played with the bump  
stop ranges in the front and the back  to have a little bit better feeling  
for braking and accelerating and also  reduced brake bias a little bit as well.
I also reduced the steering ratio by  one which I haven't talked about yet  
but that just basically means  that I have to turn my steering  
wheel less for the same amount  of turning of the actual wheels.
So lower values means you have to turn the wheel  
less and higher values mean that  you have to turn your wheel more.
That is most of the time just personal  preference I at least in the McLaren  
prefer the value to be a little  bit lower so play with this if  
you are feeling like it's a little bit  sluggish or a little bit too Snappy.
And in the aero section I just  increased the rear right height  
a little bit from the Baseline to  have a little bit more rotation but  
not too much because I didn't want  a very oversteery car in general.
Does it work for you?
And that's already it.
I hope my method of setting a baseline setup and  
then adjusting to what you feel  the car needs helps you out.
If it does I would really appreciate  it if you left a like on the video and  
considered subscribing to the channel for more  racing content both on acc and other games.
If you have any questions or  problems with this let us know  
in the comments down below and I or  others can hopefully help you out.
If you're interested in some more  interesting racing content feel  
free to click the video on screen right now.
But with that I hope you enjoyed. I've  been HDeeRacing. Thanks a lot for watching.

